#labels Featured
Steps to install Google Search Appliance Connector for Databases.

= Introduction =
This document walks you through the steps to manually install a Google Search Appliance Connector for Databases. The instructions mentioned here are applicable to connector version 2.8.0 and above

Google recommends that you use the Google connectors installer for installing the connector. You may want to do it manually if,

  * You have built and installed a customized connector manager or a customized version of   the connector
  * You want to deploy the connector on an existing Tomcat installation
  * You are installing a patch release that is not packaged with an installer.

=Pre-requisites=
  * Apache Tomcat 6. You can download it from it from http://tomcat.apache.org/download-60.cgi
  * JRE1.5 or above. Refer to http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index_jdk5.jsp for downloads
  * Connector Manager version 2.8.0 or higher.Refer to  http://code.google.com/p/google-enterprise-connector-manager/downloads/list for downloads
=Manual installation steps=
  # Shut down Tomcat if it is running.
  # Go to $CATALINA_HOME\bin directory.
    * *For Windows* edit Add the following lines in the start of the setclasspath.bat:
      {{{
      Add the following lines in the start of the file:
      set JRE_HOME=<JRE_HOME>
      set PATH=%PATH%;
   
      Add the following lines just before "rem Set standard command for invoking Java":
      rem Google Enterpise Connector Logging
      set CONNECTOR_LOGGING=%CATALINA_HOME%\webapps\connector-manager\WEB-INF\lib\connector-logging.jar
      if not exist "%CONNECTOR_LOGGING%" goto noConnectorLogging
      set CLASSPATH=%CLASSPATH%;%CONNECTOR_LOGGING%
      :noConnectorLogging
      }}} 
    * *For Linux* edit setclasspath.sh
      {{{
      Add the following lines in the start of the file:
      export JRE_HOME=<JRE_HOME>
      export PATH="$PATH":"$JRE_HOME"/bin
     
      Add the following lines just before "# OSX hack to CLASSPATH":
      # Google Enterpise Connector Logging
      CONNECTOR_LOGGING="$CATALINA_HOME"/webapps/connector-manager/WEB-INF/lib/connector-logging.jar
      if [ -f "$CONNECTOR_LOGGING ]; then
      CLASSPATH="$CLASSPATH":"$CONNECTOR_LOGGING"
      fi

      }}}
      Please make sure that all the shell scripts (with ".sh" as extension) have execute permissions.
  # If you do not have the connector manager installed, follow these steps
    * Start a web browser and navigate to http://code.google.com/p/google-enterprise-connector-manager/downloads/list
    * Download the correct binary distribution compressed file for your platform
    * unpack the binary distribution
    * copy the connector-manager.war to $CATALINA_HOME/webapps directory
    * Start Tomcat so that the connector manager gets deployed. 
    * To confirm that the connector manager has been properly deployed under Tomcat confirm that a directory with the name connector-manager has been created under $CATALINA_HOME/webapps directory

    * Also you can check for http://localhost:8080/connector-manager/testConnectivity which will displays the connectivity status or http://localhost:8080/connector-manager/startUp which will display a message indicating the successful deployment of Connector Manager 
    * Shut down the Tomcat to start with the further steps.
  # In a browser goto http://code.google.com/p/google-enterprise-connector-database/downloads/list and download the binary distribution of your choice.
  # Unzip the downloaded file into an empty root distribution directory.
  # Copy connector-db.jar from the root distribution directory to the $CATALINA_HOME/webapps/connector-manager/WEB-INF/lib directory.
  # Copy the JDBC jar required for a specific database to the $CATALINA_HOME/webapps/connector-manager/WEB-INF/lib directory.
  # Copy the files in the Lib directory under the root distribution directory to the $CATALINA_HOME/webapps/connector-manager/WEB-INF/lib directory.
  # Edit the file $CATALINA_HOME/bin/catalina.bat (catalina.sh on Linux): 
    {{{
       Change the line:
         set JAVA_OPTS=%JAVA_OPTS% -Djava.util.logging.manager=org.apache.juli.ClassLoaderLogManager -Djava.util.logging.config.file="%CATALINA_BASE%\conf\logging.properties"
       To:
         set JAVA_OPTS=%JAVA_OPTS% -Djava.util.logging.manager=java.util.logging.LogManager -Djava.util.logging.config.file="%CATALINA_BASE%\webapps\connector-manager\WEB-INF\classes\logging.properties"

       For Linux use a Unix path and $CATALINA_BASE 
    }}}
  # In the $CATALINA_HOME/webapps/connector-manager/WEB-INF directory, create a directory or called classes.
  # Copy the file logging.properties file from the Config directory in the root distribution directory to the new $CATALINA_HOME/webapps/connector-manager/WEB-INF/classes directory.
  # Start the Tomcat server.
  # To confirm whether the Tomcat server has started correctly and the connector is installed, navigate to the $CATALINA_HOME/webapps/connector-manager/WEB-INF/connectors directory, and verify that the $CATALINA_HOME/webapps/connector-manager/WEB-INF/connectors/DBConnectorType directory exists.